we forget that the last s in SAS is a
service this is supposed to be a service
and not an endless sort of games to prop
up nrr in stressful times and it's tough
I even some of the Sass leaders we look
up to the most are playing games around
this around buying around what I'm
buying around leaving around data that
years ago they didn't play they didn't
play slack and zoom never raised prices
for years slack was disruptive in the
early days because it implemented what
it called the fair billing policy and if
you didn't use seats they didn't charge
you for them and I think for a while we
got there and then when SAS got Hur her
the last couple years for many even if
growth was there it got harder we
stopped as Fair billing policies we kept
billing for seats folks weren't using it
we made it harder to leave and we're
back and it's so tough now that honestly
I am I'm scared to buy hey everybody
it's saster I've got a bit of an odd one
here at least odd because it's saster
but to be honest I am scared to buy new
SAS apps now I'm not
this may seem an almost heretical thing
for saster to say but I think it's a
challenge I think it's something we
should all reflect on especially if
you're seeing growth slow if you're
seeing things get harder it may be you
actually may be making it much harder to
buy your app than you realize and I can
tell you even myself I am scared to buy
new SAS apps I'm going to tell you nine
reasons why because the sheer amount of
friction that many even SAS leaders have
added in terms of Buy buying using and
most importantly leaving and the harder
it is to leave man the more stressful it
is to buy trust me those short-term
benefits by uh pushing churn out a
quarter or two may not be worth it if it
creates huge amounts of friction going
in and I'll tell you in this age of AI
where it's exploding we're buying more
and more AI apps many of the best AI
apps are very easy to try by and to
leave Claude chat gbt and others they're
20 bucks a month they're cheap the free
versions are really good deep seek is
free too are you some of them free we
pay for some of them they're all great
and honestly just as an experiment I
went from the free to the paid version
of Claude and then I just tried out the
cancellation process took one second
there were no games they didn't tell me
I had to wait a year there I was not
threatened there were no issues I just
was able to downgrade to free and then
go right back that's the way we want it
folks we forget that the last s in SAS
is a service this is supposed to be a
service and not an endless sort of games
to prop up nrr are in stressful times
and it's tough I even some of the Sass
leaders we look up to the most are
playing games around this around buying
around what I'm buying around leaving
around data that years ago they didn't
play they didn't play slack and zoom
never raised prices for years slack was
disruptive in the early days because it
implemented what it called the fair
billing policy and if you didn't use
seats they didn't charge you for them
and I remember thinking that was crazy
at the first saster annual and asking
Stuart Butterfield about it he said yeah
this is the way we have to do things
today we have to be super customer
Centric and I think for a while we got
there and then when SAS got harder the
last couple years for many even if
growth was there it got harder we
stopped those Fair billing policies we
kept billing for seats folks weren't
using it we made it harder to leave and
we're back and it's so tough now that
honestly I am I'm scared to buy and it
was interesting that zyo which is one of
the vendors that helps you manage SAS
cost and vendors reported that the
average number of SAS vendors is down
it's down and that I think there's a
number of reasons but it's not because
spend is down according to Gartner spend
on SAS is up 20% and you can see us
buying all these cool AI tools that do
things we couldn't do before that are
creating this video that are uh writing
up saster posts that are doing our Clips
we could never do those things before
and we're paying for them gladly but
beyond that we're trying to standardize
on the platforms we already use because
it's just stressful to add a new vendor
if we're already using HubSpot if we're
already using Salesforce we're all
asking ourselves can we just do it in
the app we already have so make it
easier so let me tell you nine Reasons
I'm genuinely scared to buy SAS apps
today and maybe if you listen and think
about them maybe you'll realize if
you're doing some of these maybe you
shouldn't be maybe you're going short
maybe even you're pressuring your
Revenue team and they're responding by
going short to make this month or make
this quarter but maybe ultimately it's
not the right thing for the customers
and not the right thing for the business
in the long run okay number one I am
just scared to buy an app that it will
be impossible to cancel or downgrade I
can't tell you how many apps for years
we didn't cancel anything that saster I
didn't have time but when at had a
little time there's several apps I tried
to cancel or downgrade these were
battles one app a sort of pre-ai video
app we used that I honestly had not used
in 18 months and had paid for I tried to
cancel it was hidden it was hidden and
when I finally found the cancel link
they said I had to talk to support and
then I talked to support and support
told me no one was available in finance
from 9 to5 no one worked in
finance they couldn't process my
cancellation I couldn't believe it there
is another app that we paid over $1,000
a year for and finally after 8 years we
moved to another vendor because their
support just deteriorated so much we
couldn't even get things fixed and so
finally I left and month after month
they kept charging us and the downgrade
link was hidden I finally found the down
link and I talked to support and we
literally hadn't used the product in
three months usage had gone to zero and
I finally talked to somebody I said
listen I'm cancelling I'm going to call
AMX I'm do whatever and they said listen
you don't actually this sort of
retention team said you don't really
need the ,000 a month version you can
use the $200 a month version I'm like
great listen just as a backup plan sign
me up 200 bucks I'm in the next day I
get an email from sales we're not going
to allow the downgrade we're not going
to allow it the retention team wanted to
keep the logo they wanted to keep the
grr up but the revenue team thought it
was better to threaten me than to lose
that $800 to go from a th000 to $200 a
month so it was an or deal finally I
just said forget it this is not the kind
of vendor I want to work with they still
charged me a two-month exit fee on an
allegedly grab as you go month-to-month
feature they charged me $2,000 to leave
and it was just brutal and I just don't
want to go through this again I don't
know if I can trust a lot of vendors I'm
assuming now I can't I think in sassin
old days I assumed I could we all assume
we get excited and we put in our credit
card or process that first po we all
assume it's going to be great and that
if it's not it's on them but the vendors
are making it on us it's on us to get
out of there it's become a roach motel
and I just don't want that I don't want
want to just so many uh companies I
don't want another vendor that I have to
worry about that it's going to be
impossible to get out of there and I
will note most of these next Generation
AI vendors they're premium they're easy
to upgrade and they're easy to downgrade
why aren't you it's because you're not
growing fast enough when you're playing
games okay the second one which really
didn't exist until a few years ago and
I'm also scared of it is that we'll pay
for your app we'll finally use it and
then you've got us and you're going to
force us to use a much more expensive
Edition the first time I personally saw
this was twice Zoom we pay a couple
hundred bucks a month for Zoom twice
they sent us bills out of the boot
telling this we had to upgrade to 40
seats and prepay four years annually and
the first time they did this they
claimed it was a mistake but it wasn't
many the other people said on social
media then they did the next year they'
to told us we had to upgrade and
quadruple our spend and pay years
prepaid I get it zoom's under pressure
they're growing 4% a year at four
billion it's a tough business but man it
just I it's just a turnoff I don't want
you to force me to buy something more
than I bought on day one we had another
vendor that helps us manage our events
and we've used them for many years we've
been a a Halo customer for gosh probably
seven years they hired a new Sierra last
year who told us now we had to pay an
extra $7,000 a year in a logo fee to
have the app branded with a logo $7,000
a year to stick a JPEG that we've
already been doing for seven years and
we asked why and the S said that's just
the way we're doing it now and look I
that their growth is slowed and they
want to force money out of the base but
man not only do I do we no longer love
that vender not only we have we actually
now using half of what we did once they
played that game but I just don't want
to buy another mediocre vendor I don't
want to buy someone that's GNA torture
me after year one it's bad enough to
have a price increase I wasn't expecting
but it's even worse to try and double or
quadruple my pricing by adding stuff I
just don't want to do or forcing me by
an addition I don't need it's an it's
Burns it's it's burned me out I just
only have so much
time okay the third one I'm just scared
about renewal drama I've had enough of
it you know a couple years ago weed a
policy little tiny saster that as soon
as we buy a sid saster we we have to
immediately send a termination notice
and people made fun of me for five years
ago but now this has become a common
practice in a lot of CFO offices they
immediately terminate the app something
that we want to cancel up to year on we
just don't want to be threaten and
forced into an auto renewal but we've
had some after many years we've had some
change on our finance team in some ways
it's better but it's changed I'm just
worried those notices won't go out I'm
worried that I'm going to buy an app not
use it and then get a bill for $2,000
450,000 in a year not even want the app
anymore uh did I do I have to remember
to send the notice why is the burden on
me and a lot of app apps are going to 60
90day notice you have to give them
before the renewal it used to be you
just let up snow ahead of time now 90
days it's a ripoff and I just don't
think I have the team in the
infrastructure to keep up with this even
worse a number public SAS companies you
probably know threaten to sue users or
threaten legal action one of them is
well over hundred billion doar in market
cap has repeatedly you can see it on X
if you search sent messages threatening
to sue them or legal action if they
don't complete their multi-year contract
this just crazy why would you sue a
customer why would you threaten to sue a
customer I get that if someone on the
retention team's bonus is tied to not
losing customers I get why some people
might cross a line there I get it I do
it's natural for their incentive but man
why would an organization allow this
several that we look up to that are
iconic so I just don't want that renewal
drama in my life I got enough I got
enough drama as it is I don't want this
fourth one I am getting burnt out that
you're not being honest about the
variable costs and charges certainly a
lot of folks have gotten stung even
though I think Claude chat TB Etc the
the base pricing is very transactional
for the prosumer product the API stuff
can be expensive and I get it so this is
not an issue that is unique to
struggling companies or older companies
but man I am just burned out on this
saster is a little bit different in that
we're tiny we have a tiny team but our
database is hundreds and hundreds of
thousands of names hundreds and hundreds
of thousands of folks they get our
emails and we have multiple emails we've
had 100,000 folks that have come to our
event so our database is pretty big it's
a half million people and the one in
particular that burns me out is when
folks ask if we'd like to try their
marketing tool and their marketing tool
is $29 a month or $99 a month or $10,000
a year
but a lot of value and I'm like okay
let's look at it and then they want to
sck us to a build one one vendor that's
several thousand a year for a marketing
to wanted over $100,000 a year to
support our records of 500,000 look more
power to you but like you got to charge
an SMB like an SMB PL to be paid so I'm
just spooked that anything with a
variable charge I'm not going to be able
to get a handle on and I'm burned out on
it and I know we there are positives for
vendors on consumption pricing but if I
don't know what it's going to cost going
in running in essence a small business
it just burns me out it burns me out
again to not know what it's going to
cost okay fifth one I've just given up
on vendors that don't for the most part
that don't have a free trial or free
addition I know this used to be uncommon
and then freemium came back at Lassie
and HubSpot Monday and others actually
started off without free additions for
the most part and added them later when
they realized the power but in the age
of AI so many of the apps that we love
are free to start free to use free to
try yeah I know that AI has expense but
so what so what it's what we've grown to
expect so there are so many apps I would
probably buy today if especially AI
related ones that can make up for the
fact that I don't have enough humans to
do the work if they were cheap if they
were easy to buy easy to leave and they
had a free addition but I can't tell you
how many apps I go to try out especially
AI apps and I just immediately am asked
to pay $80 a month because they have ai
expenses I don't care I don't care AI is
also the rebirth of freemium Rebirth of
free trial we expect to try this stuff
for free and you've got to work around
the cost you've got to get your
conversion metrics right but if you
don't have a free version for me to at
least try a little bit just says your
product's too hard to use I'm out I'm
out it's just it's not something I want
to pay before I can actually see if
there's any value not in the age of AI
okay point six this one has really crept
up on us as a tiny team I am T I am
scared that customer success will do
nothing after the deal is closed I know
I've talked a lot about this on S and I
don't mean to say grumpy but I am grumpy
about this I am grumpy that most of the
vendors we work with customer success
has turned into upsales and account
managements and they're just there to
get us to buy more stuff and if we love
them and you've treated us well of
course we want to buy more stuff from
you all of us actually do going back to
the xyo data we're asking fewer vendors
to do more so if you knock it out of the
park for us we all want to spend more
and do more with you but man I am so
burn out on customers showing up to qbrs
and reviews with people that know
nothing about our usage nothing about us
they don't know how to spell saster and
they're just there to make more money we
had one the other day where we're forced
to go on a qbr with the vendor we rely
on and they said they wanted to do a
road map review We love that we I'm the
biggest fan in the world of road maps if
you read saster do roadmap reviews do
them in person if you can do them on
Zoom do them wherever because everyone
that's invested in you wants to see
what's coming do a personalized word up
so we get in but it was a game we get in
they did not want to do a road map
review all they want to do was upsell us
and then we asked for the road map
review they said just go to the webinar
we're doing next week click they end did
the zoom they didn't really want to do
it they just wanted the upsale so I'm
just burn out that there's no one I can
trust at a vendor that I buy okay number
seven I've written about this one so
much on saster it some of you have
listened and really knocked out of the
park by doing it but I am scared I'm
100% on the hook for migration from
another solution just too many folks are
don't care at all about the headaches of
moving from one solution to another I'll
give you a very small example I was
playing with a Next Generation AI
payroll app just to see hey maybe this
would be better for us we're pretty
happy with the solution we use but I
wanted to try it and a cool app growing
very quickly people love it one I had to
put a credit card to try it so the clear
issue right there but the second one is
I didn't know how all the pieces would
work okay let's say I actually use this
for payroll how's our 401K integration
going to work how's our Healthcare inte
Healthcare is just like the biggest
issue if you're running parel how's it
going to work and the vendor didn't
really explain that we were on the hook
for making sure this would happen happen
not worth it not worth it so I'm out
want to try the cool AI payroll HS app
but if I'm on the hook for the migration
headaches I don't have the
time the last two quick points and then
we'll wrap up eight this really
summarizes the other seven and this has
always been an issue in SAS sales
especially always been an issue but it's
some ways it's getting worse I'm scared
you'll burn my time I don't have a lot
of it I just I just hate when sales
thinks it's all a game and all about the
sales if I had to if any sales
professionals especially newer ones
folks newer in your career are watching
or listening I would just H try to give
you one Insight which it takes a while
to understand but sales is the tiniest
part of a journey for the customer yes
it's important yes you're going to get
your commission from closing deal yes it
matters for the startup but think about
it from the buyer perspective as long as
the app is not too expensive the soft
costs and the time are so much more
important than the money the amount of
time we invest on our core apps is huge
and I don't have a lot of time the other
day for example we went to there's an
app we love we have two seats and we
wanted to go to three we wanted to go to
three but we had to talk to sales and
buy a multi-seat version and schedule a
call that was going to take days I don't
have that kind of time I know your time
is important in sales but you're doing a
service I'm just scared you're going to
burn my time I don't know everyone wants
to get on the phone that's my related
Point here and then I'll wrap up on
point number nine I I don't this has
become a new sales thing where folks
won't don't even want to share
information by email they always want to
get on the phone I I just got one this
morning hey going back and forth by
email so tough let's get on a call I I
know this has been taught to SDR teams
all across planet Earth in do what you
want but I'm not getting on the phone
this is an age of AI this is an age of
this is the internet I I shouldn't have
to get on a call to get a couple of
questions answered right I shouldn't I
really shouldn't unless I want to some
folks love to get in a call some folks
love to do the zoom the more Enterprise
you are the more folks want to talk the
more complicated the business process
change is but if I need a couple
questions answered please just answer
them again I don't want you to burn my
time I just don't have a lot right now
and the last one this is down on my list
but it's still one that that makes me
not want to buy because it's become a
bigger and bigger issue I'm scared
you'll make exporting my data hard now
this has been an issue since the the
dawn of SAS at a bare minimum going back
to the early day of Salesforce the early
vendors I had at a minimum even if you
in theory could export your data it was
very hard to export the data in a
structured format even if you could
export your Salesforce or any data Adobe
sign eign whatever even if you can get
it all out as PDFs how are you going to
get the structure around it in the
Enterprise data lakes and other services
like Snowflake and data brecks there's a
reason there's many reasons Enterprise
wants them but they want to own their
data and be able to do their own things
with their data not have these exporting
headaches small businesses don't quite
have those capabilities and SAS is a
small team and so I'm just worried when
I leave you're going to hold my data
hostage and it's going to be a big
headache no matter what your terms of
view say no matter what it says it's my
data even if it's your data too I'm not
claiming it's not somewhat your data but
if I paid you for years if I paid you
properly if I've paid you on time if I
paid you thousands and thousands of
dollars and you're going to make it hard
for me to export my data just so you can
trap
me I get it but I just don't think I
want to buy that app unless I'm too so
listen here's my final point this is my
final point of advice and seriously I am
for the first time in many years in SAS
I am scared to buy new apps now unless
it's clear I can leave so I have just
one one bit of meta advice Beyond
thinking through this checklist I bet
99% of folks you can hear some of you in
these nine points but quietly go to a
room slow it down and go buy your app
with a clear mind like a prospect slow
it down be honest pretend know a little
bit about an app about your own app a
lot know a little bit enough to be smart
but slow it down try it from scratch
what is the funnel do you really feel
like you can get enough information do
you really feel like you're comfortable
buying how hard as it is to talk to
sales what's that experience with the
strr and the sales team ask yourself if
there's anything anything that would
give you pause from buying and I'm going
to argue until you're at Mass scale
until you're at the Salesforce scale
don't add any friction to the sales
process there is an argument when you're
at hundreds of millions of Revenue to
add friction there is an argument that
friction itself is a qualifier
especially for your sales team that you
don't want the customers that are the
wrong customers the customers that are
going to bounce the customers that are
the wrong fit and I guess I get it but
inless you're at hundreds of millions of
Revenue you want to close every customer
you can for for the most part so slow it
down and buy your own product and take
slow careful notes on the friction I bet
there's a lot more than you thought
there was and remember SAS is supposed
to be a folks we forgot SAS software as
a service make sure your product truly
is a service